




                                Bo Borgerson

620 N. 34th St, Apt 507                                       gigabo@gmail.com
Seattle, WA 98103                                                 269-267-5949


SUMMARY:

  Software Engineer with over six years of experience developing high
  performance, scalable applications.  Ruthless tester, decorated bug-hunter,
  fanatical data hygienist, intrinsically motivated problem solver.

  I love what I do, and I'm good at it.


APPROACH:

  I love to learn, so I get up to speed quickly and improve constantly.  I
  love to teach, so I share my knowledge and help improve the skills of
  everyone I work with.  I love to explore, so I come up with techniques and
  build tools for fun that increase productivity and, sometimes, grow into
  unexpectedly durable solutions.


PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:

  Experian CheetahMail                                          (2004-present)

  Software Engineer -> Senior Software Engineer -> Tech Lead
  
  Designed and led development of the mailing, content and export subsystems
  for "next generation" email marketing platform.  Incorporated technical
  lessons learned from the first generation as well as client input.  Produced
  modular, extensible components that are approachable for new developers.

  Built a data import batch scheduler to maximize throughput for large jobs,
  minimize latency for small jobs and ensure fairness across clients.
  This scheduler is now also used for bulk subscription management and query
  execution.

  Wrote, out of curiosity, tools to explore data produced by our application.
  These tools now form the foundation of the new production reporting system.

  Acted as a "testing evangelist", encouraging simultaneous development of
  unit tests with features and challenging the assertion that a bug fix is
  complete when there's no accompanying regression test.

  Gave technical presentations to audiences of up to fifty software engineers
  on topics including character sets and encodings, handling large datasets
  with limited resources and managing concurrency in long-running processes.

  CheetahMail (not yet Experian)                                 (Summer 2001)

  Software Engineering Intern

  Took an unpaid internship, not knowing Perl, after one year of college.
  Built (in Perl) a templatized content system for email campaigns that's
  still in use today.  Went back to school at the end of the summer with a
  hefty check and a job offer.






                                Bo Borgerson

620 N. 34th St, Apt 507                                       gigabo@gmail.com
Seattle, WA 98103                                                 269-267-5949


OPEN SOURCE CONTRIBUTION HIGHLIGHTS:

  GNU COREUTILS / GNULIB:

  Significantly improved the performance of the join utility by reducing
  memory management overhead.

  Reconciled two divergent base64 encoding libraries to make the performance
  improvements and features from each available to the other, and to reduce
  duplication of effort.

  Improved the flexibility of the sort utility by exposing control over
  algorithm selection to the user and removing limits imposed by calling
  convention.

  PERL 5 (CORE):

  Fixed bugs both of my own discovery and from the bug tracking system.  

  Improved the performance of the split operation in scalar context by
  reducing memory management overhead.


RELATED SKILLS:

  OS: I prefer Linux or OSX.  I can use anything.

  PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES: Professional experience with Perl, C and JavaScript.
                         Hobby projects in Ruby, Erlang and Java.
                         Desire and ability to learn many others.

  QUERY, MARKUP, OBJECT NOTATION LANGUAGES: SQL, HTML, XML, JSON.

  TOOLS: svn, git, gcc, gdb, valgrind, make, screen, vim, bash.


EDUCATION:

  B.A. in Computer Science from Kalamazoo College.               (2000-2004)

  Japan Study program at Waseda University in Tokyo, Japan.      (2002-2003)

  Senior thesis: Technical considerations for internet applications in China.


OTHER INTERESTS:

  I read constantly.  I study Chinese.  I've played ping pong in clubs in the
  US and China.  I commuted over the Brooklyn Bridge and through New York
  City traffic by bicycle for two years, and loved it.  I washed, fueled and
  serviced small aircraft at a local airport in high school to pay for flight
  lessons and earned my pilot's license when I was seventeen.  I like to hike
  and to rock climb, to play frisbee and to canoe.  I like card games and
  board games (and word games, too).
